README.md, before:

# Bam Bam

Converts a MIDI drum track from one drum sample map to another.

## Development

Start in the middle (domain model) and test outwards (UI), via a different
driver. Push scenarios down to unit tests and extract libraries for stable
parts.

Prefer over-simplification over using terminology from the solution domain.

### Test code

```shell
npm test
```

## Tools

There are a lot of tools that are used for development. Here are the packages
that provide them and where to look for configuration:

- Cucumber runs BDD tests with Gherkin syntax.
  - `@cucumber/*` provides cucumber and formatters, which make the output on
    the command line look nice.
  - `ts-node` adds TypeScript support to `cucumber-js`.
  - `tsconfig-paths` allows TypeScript sources in `features/` to use path
    aliases to production code sources.
- `direnv` integrates environment management with your shell (e.g. bash or zsh).
  - `.envrc`: configuration script
  - Homebrew installation: `brew install direnv`
    - Note: Follow instructions about updating `.bashrc` or `.zshrc`
- EditorConfig defines basic parameters for formatting source files.
  - `.editorconfig`: configuration file
- ESLint performs static analysis and style checks.
  - `eslint`: main package
  - `@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin` and `@typescript-eslint/parser` add
    support for TypeScript.
  - `.eslintrc.cjs`: configuration file
- GitHub actions perform Continuous Integration / Continuous Deployment (CI/CD)
  - `.github/workflows`: Workflow definitions
- Husky adds a Git pre-commit hook that runs checks on staged files, before
  committing to the repository.
  - `husky`: main package
  - `.husky/pre-commit`: The actual pre-commit script
  - `package.json` also has a `prepare` script that installs the Git hook.
- `lint-staged` runs the actual checks on source files staged for the next Git
  commit.
  - `lint-staged`: main package
  - `.lintstagedrc.cjs`: configuration file
- Node.js is the runtime platform.
  - `package.json`: package properties, dependencies, and task automation (e.g.
    scripts)
- Node Version Manager (`nvm`) installs a known version of Node.js and
  configures your shell to use it.
  - `.nvmrc`: configuration file
- Prettier formats source files.
  - `prettier`: main package
  - `.prettierignore`: which files should be skipped, while formatting
  - `.prettierrc.json`: configuration file
- TypeScript adds static typing to JavaScript.
  - `typescript`: main package
  - `@tsconfig/node18`: base configuration for the version of node.js we're
    using here
  - `@types/*`: type definitions for all the other packages we're using
  - `tsconfig.json` - configuration file for sources in `src/`
  - `features/tsconfig.json` - configuration file for sources in `features/`

## Reference

### General MIDI Percussion key map

> For MIDI Channel 10, each MIDI KEY number ("NOTE#") corresponds to a
> different drum sound, as shown below. While many current instruments
> also have additional sounds above or below the range show here, and
> may even have additional "kits" with variations of these sounds, only
> these sounds are supported by General MIDI Level 1 devices.

```text
Key# Note Drum Sound        Key# Note Drum Sound
35 B0 Acoustic Bass Drum    59 B2 Ride Cymbal 2
36 C1 Bass Drum 1           60 C3 Hi Bongo
37 C#1 Side Stick           61 C#3 Low Bongo
38 D1 Acoustic Snare        62 D3 Mute Hi Conga
39 Eb1 Hand Clap            63 Eb3 Open Hi Conga
40 E1 Electric Snare        64 E3 Low Conga
41 F1 Low Floor Tom         65 F3 High Timbale
42 F#1 Closed Hi Hat        66 F#3 Low Timbale
43 G1 High Floor Tom        67 G3 High Agogo
44 Ab1 Pedal Hi-Hat         68 Ab3 Low Agogo
45 A1 Low Tom               69 A3 Cabasa
46 Bb1 Open Hi-Hat          70 Bb3 Maracas
47 B1 Low-Mid Tom           71 B3 Short Whistle
48 C2 Hi Mid Tom            72 C4 Long Whistle
49 C#2 Crash Cymbal 1       73 C#4 Short Guiro
50 D2 High Tom              74 D4 Long Guiro
51 Eb2 Ride Cymbal 1        75 Eb4 Claves
52 E2 Chinese Cymbal        76 E4 Hi Wood Block
53 F2 Ride Bell             77 F4 Low Wood Block
54 F#2 Tambourine           78 F#4 Mute Cuica
55 G2 Splash Cymbal         79 G4 Open Cuica
56 Ab2 Cowbell              80 Ab4 Mute Triangle
57 A2 Crash Cymbal 2        81 A4 Open Triangle
58 Bb2 Vibraslap
```

Source: <https://musescore.org/sites/musescore.org/files/General%20MIDI%20Standard%20Percussion%20Set%20Key%20Map.pdf>

Commit message:

Add config files for cucumber

README.md, after:

# Bam Bam

Converts a MIDI drum track from one drum sample map to another.

## Development

Start in the middle (domain model) and test outwards (UI), via a different
driver. Push scenarios down to unit tests and extract libraries for stable
parts.

Prefer over-simplification over using terminology from the solution domain.

### Test code

```shell
npm test
```

## Tools

There are a lot of tools that are used for development. Here are the packages
that provide them and where to look for configuration:

- Cucumber runs BDD tests with Gherkin syntax.
  - `@cucumber/*` provides cucumber and formatters, which make the output on
    the command line look nice.
  - `ts-node` adds TypeScript support to `cucumber-js`.
  - `tsconfig-paths` allows TypeScript sources in `features/` to use path
    aliases to production code sources.
  - `features/cucumber.cjs`: configuration file for where to find tests and
    support code
  - `features/tsconfig.json`: TypeScript configuration
- `direnv` integrates environment management with your shell (e.g. bash or zsh).
  - `.envrc`: configuration script
  - Homebrew installation: `brew install direnv`
    - Note: Follow instructions about updating `.bashrc` or `.zshrc`
- EditorConfig defines basic parameters for formatting source files.
  - `.editorconfig`: configuration file
- ESLint performs static analysis and style checks.
  - `eslint`: main package
  - `@typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin` and `@typescript-eslint/parser` add
    support for TypeScript.
  - `.eslintrc.cjs`: configuration file
- GitHub actions perform Continuous Integration / Continuous Deployment (CI/CD)
  - `.github/workflows`: Workflow definitions
- Husky adds a Git pre-commit hook that runs checks on staged files, before
  committing to the repository.
  - `husky`: main package
  - `.husky/pre-commit`: The actual pre-commit script
  - `package.json` also has a `prepare` script that installs the Git hook.
- `lint-staged` runs the actual checks on source files staged for the next Git
  commit.
  - `lint-staged`: main package
  - `.lintstagedrc.cjs`: configuration file
- Node.js is the runtime platform.
  - `package.json`: package properties, dependencies, and task automation (e.g.
    scripts)
- Node Version Manager (`nvm`) installs a known version of Node.js and
  configures your shell to use it.
  - `.nvmrc`: configuration file
- Prettier formats source files.
  - `prettier`: main package
  - `.prettierignore`: which files should be skipped, while formatting
  - `.prettierrc.json`: configuration file
- TypeScript adds static typing to JavaScript.
  - `typescript`: main package
  - `@tsconfig/node18`: base configuration for the version of node.js we're
    using here
  - `@types/*`: type definitions for all the other packages we're using
  - `tsconfig.json` - configuration file for sources in `src/`
  - `features/tsconfig.json` - configuration file for sources in `features/`

## Reference

### General MIDI Percussion key map

> For MIDI Channel 10, each MIDI KEY number ("NOTE#") corresponds to a
> different drum sound, as shown below. While many current instruments
> also have additional sounds above or below the range show here, and
> may even have additional "kits" with variations of these sounds, only
> these sounds are supported by General MIDI Level 1 devices.

```text
Key# Note Drum Sound        Key# Note Drum Sound
35 B0 Acoustic Bass Drum    59 B2 Ride Cymbal 2
36 C1 Bass Drum 1           60 C3 Hi Bongo
37 C#1 Side Stick           61 C#3 Low Bongo
38 D1 Acoustic Snare        62 D3 Mute Hi Conga
39 Eb1 Hand Clap            63 Eb3 Open Hi Conga
40 E1 Electric Snare        64 E3 Low Conga
41 F1 Low Floor Tom         65 F3 High Timbale
42 F#1 Closed Hi Hat        66 F#3 Low Timbale
43 G1 High Floor Tom        67 G3 High Agogo
44 Ab1 Pedal Hi-Hat         68 Ab3 Low Agogo
45 A1 Low Tom               69 A3 Cabasa
46 Bb1 Open Hi-Hat          70 Bb3 Maracas
47 B1 Low-Mid Tom           71 B3 Short Whistle
48 C2 Hi Mid Tom            72 C4 Long Whistle
49 C#2 Crash Cymbal 1       73 C#4 Short Guiro
50 D2 High Tom              74 D4 Long Guiro
51 Eb2 Ride Cymbal 1        75 Eb4 Claves
52 E2 Chinese Cymbal        76 E4 Hi Wood Block
53 F2 Ride Bell             77 F4 Low Wood Block
54 F#2 Tambourine           78 F#4 Mute Cuica
55 G2 Splash Cymbal         79 G4 Open Cuica
56 Ab2 Cowbell              80 Ab4 Mute Triangle
57 A2 Crash Cymbal 2        81 A4 Open Triangle
58 Bb2 Vibraslap
```

Source: <https://musescore.org/sites/musescore.org/files/General%20MIDI%20Standard%20Percussion%20Set%20Key%20Map.pdf>
